# FinalProject
For this project, I was trying to use computer vision to detect a user's facial expressions, and based off their expressions, print out the corresponding emoji. I invisioned this project as having the potential to become a possible iMessage addon in which users would be able to text emojis with much more ease. This project uses OpenFrameworks and a variety of addons to determine how much the user is smiling, and then print out a corresponding emoji. I tried to work on this product using a vaiety of methods and approaches, but the possibilities were limited becaue of what the openframeworks addons and C++ were capable of. For now, this project can detect whether or not you are smiling, and if you are, whether it is a big or small smile.

# For the User
There are a few commands to keep in mind when using this project. When starting the application, you will come to the welcome
screen. To get out of it, press S, and to get back to it, press S again. Also, to take a still image, press T. This is the picture that the program will use to detect your expression. There are also two other features in this project. You can toggle facetracking and take a screenshot of the application using the two buttons on the top left of the application. Emotion detection will not always be perfect because using Openframeworks, OpenCV, and C++ all together limits the scope of possibilities in terms of projects of this size. Taking still pictures more than once may be needed to obtain the results needed. 

# For a Developer
There is a lot of room for expansion for this project. For now, there are only a few addons that deal with smiles and GUI, but to expand this project using OpenFrameworks, integration of many other addons would be necessary. ofxFaceTracker may be a good place to start, but there are endless possibilities. In terms of continuing to use opencv, training better haar classifiers would be required because the ones generically provided are not accurate enough. Furthermore, in terms of adding more emojis to the project, it would not be too difficult since Emojis have been made into their own object. All it would require would be to download the image and save it to the bin/data folder. After that just set the emoji to the file name and the rest is taken care of. As a developer, I made it so that expansion would be possible. I tried to make it so that adding more emotions to the code would not be too difficult. I also worked hard to use the addons currently present in the project to their fullest potential. I definitely think, however, that the use of opencv can be expanded to track eye, mouth, and hand movement, which could then add a vast array of other emotions to this project.

# Summary
Overall, I tried to create a program that could determine the emotion of the user through their webcam and output the corresponding emoji to ease, and enhance, the process of using emojis when messaging. I hope to continue this project and eventually integrate it into phones and other forms of messaging.
